# Patent US3550075





=US3550075 : System for displaying time information in acoustic well logging system = 



== Invention date ==

Oct 24, 1968

== Inventeurs et beneficiaires ==

=== Inventeur(s) === 
* * [[Hilchie Douglas W]]
* [[Zemanek Joseph Jr]]
=== Beneficiaires === 
* * [[luc]]


= Abstract =

(OCR text may contain errors)Dec. 22, 1970 o. w. HILCHIE ETAL 3,550,075 SYSTEM FOR DISPLAYING TIME INFORMATION IN ACOUSTIC WELL LOGGING SYSTEM Filed Oct. 24, 1968 Sheets-Sheet 1 POWER AMP 4 40 Z %E JI a SYNC.  DELAY :9, I I MV l MV I I l .96 66 SWEEP I 43V GEN. I 97 BUFFER INVERT 55 l AMP 98 I 32 LL o GEAR INTENSIFY PEAK m REDUCER Mv DETECTOR M2 mo 9;? l Z I i ill 74 I l Q y I L. g i l I v I Q I 30 I v Q o o o v e H 7. 9 ,4 v 1; F|g.| mvamogzs Fa Douglas W. Hllchle By Joseph Zemonek, Jr. 4 QI A ATTORNEY Dec. 22, 1 970 n. w. HILCHIE T 3,550,075 SYSTEM FOR DISPLAYING TIME INFORMATION -IN ACOUSTIC WELL LOGGING SYSTEM Filed Oct. 24, 1968 5 Sheets-Sheet 2 VOLTS- INVENTQRS Douglas W. H||ch|e Fi 5 BY Joseph Zemonek, Jr. ATTORNEY 22. 1970 o. w. HILCHIE ETAL SYSTEM FOR DISPLAYING TIME INFORMATION IN ACOUSTIC WELL LOGGING SYSTEM 5 Sheets-$heet 3 Filed Oct. 24, 1968 Fig.6 INVENTORS ATTORNEY ru .w k 8 W H .m k h D. 98 Us 0 0 DJ Y B Dec. 22, 1970 o. w. HILCHIE ETAL 3,5 SYSTEM FOR DISPLAYING TIME INFORMATION IN ACOUSTIC WELL LOGGING SYSTEM Filed Oct. 24, 1968 5 Sheets-Sheet 4 Douglas W. Hilchie By Joseph Zemonek, Jr. W 6. Wm: TTORVEY Dec. .22, 1970 o. w. HILCHIE ETAL 3,550,075 SYSTEM FOR DISPLAYING TIME INFORMATION .IN ACOUSTIC WELL LOGGING SYSTEM Filed Oct. 24, 1968 5 Sheets-Sheet 5 X- MITTER 08c CKT. i  f 71; GATING Z CKT.  DET. TO LOGGING r CKT. CABLE F lg. 8 INVENTORS Douglas W. Hilchie BY Joseph Zemonek, Jr. Maw ATTORNEY United States Iatent O 3,550,075 SYSTEM FOR DISPLAYING TIME INFORMATION IN ACOUSTIC WELL LOGGING SYSTEM Douglas W. Hilchie, Butte, Mont., and Joseph Zemauek, J12, Dallas, Tex., assignors to Mobil Oil Corporation, a corporation of New York Filed Oct. 24, 1968, Ser. No. 770,201 Int. Cl. G01r 2904 US. Cl. 340-15.5 12 Claims ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE The specification discloses a directional acoustic transducer supported for rotation in a borehole and operated periodically to transmit acoustic pulses to the borehole wall and to detect reflected acoustic energy. CircuitrV is employed to produce output signals having an amplitude inversely proportional to the time between the transmission of acoustic pulses and the detection of reflected acoustic energy. These output signals are applied to an oscilloscope to modulate the intensity of its electron beam which is swept across the screen of the scope once for each rotation of the transducer. The intensity of the trace obtained varies as a function of the two-way travel time whereby a variable-density presentation, representative of distance, is obtained of the borehole configuration. 
= Patents Backwards =

* [[Patent US2631270]]
* [[Patent US3093810]]
= Patents Forwards =

* [[Patent US3955561]]
* [[Patent US4601024]]
* [[Patent US4704708]]
* [[Patent US4711122]]
* [[Patent US4780857]]
* [[Patent US4876672]]
* [[Patent US5001676]]
* [[Patent US5333502]]
* [[Patent US8286467]]
* [[Patent US20090114019]]
[[Category:Patents]][[Category:Brevets]][[Category:CoolHand]]