## quand un ancien de mobisante contribue à echopen



après revue de la littérature sur le post-processing, et lecture sur micro-
benchmarks de post-processing -&gt; contact de Will Steelman et proposition de
contribution libre à Echopen, il nous a donné les sources de son dispo de scan
conversion. sa réponse est intéressante et je vous feedback pour le call  
  
bon c en c, donc je vais le recompiler et le wrapper pour java  
  
Voilà sa réponse  
  

"The source code that was used for the project is attached.  It includes the
source file (scan.c), a makefile, and some sample images that were used during
testing.  Run it with -h on the command line to print the help message to see
the command line input format (or just look at the help message in the
source).   You'll have to do some looking into the OpenGL package for Android
to see if the functionality is supported.

  

This work may be useful for the mobile application, but I found it to be
overkill for PC-based ultrasound.  The processing power in modern laptops is
more than sufficient to do scan conversion on the CPU.  You can use some
optimization techniques like the use of 4x oversampled vectors (see Richard
WD, Arthur RM. Real-time ultrasonic scan conversion via linear interpolation
of oversampled vectors, _Ultrason Imaging 16_, 109-23 (1994).)  The other
trick is to pre-compute the spatial mappings, if you can assume that the
geometry of the sector scan doesn't change.   When you pre-compute, you work
the problem backwards to generate a map that defines, for every output pixel,
the input sample indexes and interpolation weights.  This means that you don't
need to do the coordinate transform on the fly, you just need to do the
lookups in the input raw data and do the interpolation.  This is highly
efficient if implemented correctly and may be good enough for your
application.

  

I've been out of the medical field for some time now - I've been working in
finance on high performance, algorithmic trading for the last 6 years - but I
did work very closely on low-cost, mechanical scan ultrasound probes.  I
worked with the engineers that developed the technology behind both Mobisante
(<http://www.mobisante.com/>) and Interson
(<http://www.interson.com/products>).   I also used the same technology to
develop hardware and software for a 3D prostate ultrasound system
(<http://www.envisioneeringmedical.com/>).  Some of the work that I did will,
unfortunately, fall under protection by corporate NDA and US patent law, but I
may be able to point you in the right direction, especially on things that
have been published into the public domain.   I most likely will not be able
to donate much, if any, actual engineering time to the project, but I would be
happy to have a phone call if you like. "



### **Hyacinthe Lacenne** on September 3, 2015:



Terrible !!!  
Marrant qu'il soit passé dans la finance après Mobisanté =)



### **Hyacinthe Lacenne** on September 3, 2015:



euh il est passé à la finance par mobisanté ;)  
  
[image: photo]  
*Hyacinthe Lacenne*  
Club JADE  
+33630371100 | [lacenne@clubjade.fr](mailto:lacenne@clubjade.fr) | [www
.club-jade.fr](http://www.club-jade.fr) | 10 rue Gustave  
Rouanet, 75018  
&lt;[http://www.facebook.com/pages/Club-
Jade/281050951907640?fref=ts&gt;](http://www.facebook.com/pages/Club-
Jade/281050951907640?fref=ts>)  
&lt;[http://twitter.com/club_jade&gt;](http://twitter.com/club_jade>)  
Get a signature like this: Click here!  
&lt;[http://ws-
promos.appspot.com/r?rdata=eyJydXJsIjogImh0dHA6Ly93d3cud2lzZXN0YW1wLmNvbS9lbWFpbC1pbnN0YWxsP3dzX25jaWQ9NjcyMjk0MDA4JnV0bV9zb3VyY2U9ZXh0ZW5zaW9uJnV0bV9tZWRpdW09ZW1haWwmdXRtX2NhbXBhaWduPXByb21vXzU3MzI1Njg1NDg3Njk3OTIiLCAiZSI6ICI1NzMyNTY4NTQ4NzY5NzkyIn0=&gt;](http
://ws-
promos.appspot.com/r?rdata=eyJydXJsIjogImh0dHA6Ly93d3cud2lzZXN0YW1wLmNvbS9lbWFpbC1pbnN0YWxsP3dzX25jaWQ9NjcyMjk0MDA4JnV0bV9zb3VyY2U9ZXh0ZW5zaW9uJnV0bV9tZWRpdW09ZW1haWwmdXRtX2NhbXBhaWduPXByb21vXzU3MzI1Njg1NDg3Njk3OTIiLCAiZSI6ICI1NzMyNTY4NTQ4NzY5NzkyIn0=>)  
  
Le jeu. 3 sept. 2015 à 09:15, Hyacinthe Lacenne (Basecamp) &lt;



### **Hyacinthe Lacenne** on September 3, 2015:



A noter, CGA avait contacté le WD Richard - il n'avait pas encore répondu.



### **Hyacinthe Lacenne** on September 3, 2015:



Scan Conversion : boulay, j'avais oublié une partie du travail de seattle =)  
  
<https://docs.google.com/document/d/16j_-
B_xzm5jYWZaI4_UeuwFzhb5nn06Pbat_pjFnjQo/edit?usp=sharing>  
  
Tu veux te faire une tite page sur le wiki avec ca?



### **Hyacinthe Lacenne** on September 3, 2015:



yes asap - ca nous permettra de faire du microbench en challenge et ca va  
attirer les dev pluggés perf ;)  
  
[image: photo]  
*Hyacinthe Lacenne*  
Club JADE  
+33630371100 | [lacenne@clubjade.fr](mailto:lacenne@clubjade.fr) | [www
.club-jade.fr](http://www.club-jade.fr) | 10 rue Gustave  
Rouanet, 75018  
&lt;[http://www.facebook.com/pages/Club-
Jade/281050951907640?fref=ts&gt;](http://www.facebook.com/pages/Club-
Jade/281050951907640?fref=ts>)  
&lt;[http://twitter.com/club_jade&gt;](http://twitter.com/club_jade>)  
Get a signature like this: Click here!  
&lt;[http://ws-
promos.appspot.com/r?rdata=eyJydXJsIjogImh0dHA6Ly93d3cud2lzZXN0YW1wLmNvbS9lbWFpbC1pbnN0YWxsP3dzX25jaWQ9NjcyMjk0MDA4JnV0bV9zb3VyY2U9ZXh0ZW5zaW9uJnV0bV9tZWRpdW09ZW1haWwmdXRtX2NhbXBhaWduPXByb21vXzU3MzI1Njg1NDg3Njk3OTIiLCAiZSI6ICI1NzMyNTY4NTQ4NzY5NzkyIn0=&gt;](http
://ws-
promos.appspot.com/r?rdata=eyJydXJsIjogImh0dHA6Ly93d3cud2lzZXN0YW1wLmNvbS9lbWFpbC1pbnN0YWxsP3dzX25jaWQ9NjcyMjk0MDA4JnV0bV9zb3VyY2U9ZXh0ZW5zaW9uJnV0bV9tZWRpdW09ZW1haWwmdXRtX2NhbXBhaWduPXByb21vXzU3MzI1Njg1NDg3Njk3OTIiLCAiZSI6ICI1NzMyNTY4NTQ4NzY5NzkyIn0=>)  
  
Le jeu. 3 sept. 2015 à 09:37, Hyacinthe Lacenne (Basecamp) &lt;



