# Category:Receiving

== '''[[:Category:Transmitting|Transmitting]]''' ==
*'''Objective'''
**Converting the digital format to a data pipe accessible by the terminal
*'''Requirements'''
**Outputting the data samples to a readable address through an accesssible endpoint (wifi, usb, …)
**At a rate acceptable for the display and/or processing unit

== Communication protocols tests ==
=== UDP Test ===

Though we tried to work on the Red Pitaya WebApp, so far, what was successful was to used the [http://echopen.org/index.php?title=V0.0_Sprint_log_-_Getting_an_image#Soft_so_far | UDP Protocol] get send and receive data.

To resume working with the RedPitaya data, without being actually connected to it, we have developed something to pursue [[Emulating the Red Pitaya through UDP]]

=== Data preparation ===

We had fun with the logs we had at the previous [[Compressing with FFT]]

==Data rate for our prototype==

{{Template:DefiningTheImage}}

===Data quantity===

The data quantity to send depend on either the raw data or filtered data. Problem is the raw data correspond to a high quantity of data and can't be sent ''via'' USB or WIFI to a smart phone or a computer. One solution can be to send filtered data as we show below.

; Raw data

The quantity of data '''Q''' per second sampled by a probe is given by:

 Q = npN_lf_r, (4)

where '''n''' is the number of point on each line:

 n = \dfrac{2d}{c}f_e. (5)

Considering the parameter of Philippe Levesque for example, Q = 137 and 687 Mbps and for f_e = 20 and 100 MHz respectively. With our parameter (considering f_r = 15 fps), Q = 468, 585 and 702 Mbps for p = 8, 10 and 12 bits respectively.

; Filtered data

If you filter data on a bandwidth '''\Delta f''', then you only have to send the data of the Fourier Transform of the signal between this bandwidth (center on the central frequency of the transducer), ''cf.'' the wiki page on the introduction to acoustic imaging. The total quantity of data is then:

 Q = n\dfrac{\Delta f}{f_e}pN_lf_r = \dfrac{4d}{c}\Delta f pN_lf_r. (6)

It appears that with this method the data quantity does not depend anymore on the sampling frequency.

Considering the parameters of Philippe Levesque and \Delta f = 4MHz, the Q reduces to 53.5 Mbps. With our parameters we have Q = 37.5, 47 and 56 Mbps. This data rate can be trasmitted ''via'' WIFI or USB for example.