# Talk:Challenge filtrage signal

== Challenge ==

Hi there community!

Here's an interesting challenge for you guys : wouldn't it be interesting to have a standard format for all files being created with the echOpen kits - those being images, on the one hand, and raw signals on the other hand? 

The project already acquires some data on which one can work - being images or data - it would then be awesome to capitalize on this and allow those who want to do some signal processing to work on a couple of files that can be given to data processing specialists.

The objective is to set a format that 
* allows consistency in time, 
* captures all relevant information about the data since the very first images, 
* allows the use of consistent tools to work on these data
* allows a proper tagging for images.


The format could include for exemple, raw data (signal enveloppe or raw data), and meta information/headers, such as:
# probe timestamping
# size of expected image
# ID of the transducer
# the sampling unit (mm between two pixels, ns between two points, ..)
# the kit version
# the embedded firmware version
# ID of the board/kit/release
# geometry parameters / parameters to be taken in by the scan conversion
# the settings of the app (username, config (ie which setting is used, what organ is being looked at, ...)

and so on..

== Initial proposal ==

''Salut la communauté,

Petite question à ouvrir: est ce que ca ne vaudrait pas le coup de standardiser le format des fichiers pour ce qui est des images d'une part, les signaux bruts de l'autre? On commence à acquerir des données sur lesquelles on peut déjà travailler, ce serait top de capitaliser là dessus, et ca permettrait à ceux qui veulent faire du traitement de l'image d'avoir une base sur laquelle travailler pour traiter les ressources/fichiers qu'on peut mettre à disposition.

L'idée est d'avoir un format qui soit consistant dans le temps pour qu'on puisse développer des outils qui n'aient pas besoin d'évoluer à chaque fois, et d'avoir des données tagguées proprement, de manière à voir les évolutions qu'on pourra avoir en fonction des kits et releases, et d'avoir ces données propres.

Il y aurait d'un côté des headers, de l'autre les données en tant que telles.

Dans le header, on pourrait avoir:
# la date/heure de l'image
# la taille de l'image qui sera attendue
# le serial du transducteur utilisé
# la fréquence du transducteur
# le pas entre deux points
# la version du kit
# la version du firmware embarqué
# le serial de la board/kit/release
# les parametres à passer dans le scan conversion if any (à lister)
# les parametres de l'app (ex: organe en train d'etre imagé, user, timestamp côté app, ...)
# ... j'en passe et des meilleures.

Ca permettrait d'avoir une continuité des données dans le temps, malgré les évolutions qu'on pourrait avoir - un interêt certain.
''


== ==

[[Category:Challenge]] [[Category:Data]] [[Category:Software]]