# Wiki Contributor Guide

= The wiki principles =

A wiki is ... '''The simplest online database that could possibly work.'''

A wiki is a web site that lets any visitor become a participant:  you can create or edit the actual site contents without any special technical knowledge or tools. All you need is a computer with an Internet connection. A wiki is continuously “under revision.” It is a living collaboration whose purpose is the sharing of the creative process and product by many. One famous example is Wiki-pedia, an online encyclopedia with no “authors” but millions of contributors and editors.

= How to add information =

=== Key 'tags' to the pages ===

Each page that is created should clearly indicate the category in which it is intended to be used, for exemple a technical part should be categorized as:
* Hardware
* Software
Then, depending on the corresponding level of development, it should indicate on what Kit / prototype this information is linked, at this stage for example should be tagged with:
* [[:Category:Emile|Emile]]
* [[:Category:Protaud|Protaud]]
* [[:Category:Michaud|Michaud]]
* [[:Category:Neaud|Neaud]]
Finally, it should as well indicate the specifics of the Category, for example, working on creating a pulse for the transducer at the Emile stage would be tagged as:
 <nowiki>[[Category:Hardware]] [[Category:Emission]] [[Category:Transducer]] [[Category:Emile]]</nowiki>

=== Using templates ===

A nice "Pending work" alert can be displayed using the <nowiki>{{PendingWork}}</nowiki> code. 

This will also list the page as in ''PendingWork'' mode, meaning that the page is not finished. The current list of these pages can be found under [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:PendingWork]].



=== What are categories? ===

Categories, a powerful software feature of our wiki, provide automatic indexes that are useful as tables of contents.

You can categorize pages and files by adding one or more Category tags to the content text. These tags create links at the bottom of the page that take you to the list of all pages in that category, which makes it easy to browse related articles.

Each of the pages in the '''Category''' [[Special:MyLanguage/Help:Namespaces|namespace]] represents a so-called '''category''', a grouping of related pages, and contains an index for the pages of its category. For example, this page belongs to "[[:Category:Help]]". If you open the "[[:Category:Help]]" page, you will see a link to this page there.

When a page belongs to one or more categories, these categories appear at the bottom of the page. The category pages themselves contain 2 parts:

* at their beginning, an optional part may contain text that can be edited, like any other page,
* at their end, an ever present, automatically generated, alphabetical list of all pages in that category, in the form of links. (In fact, in ASCII order. See [[Help:Special pages]]).

To assign a category to a page, simply add the link "<nowiki>[[</nowiki>Category:''Category name'']]" to the page's wikitext. The usual place to add it is at the bottom of the page.

To link a category page within a page as a normal wiki link (without adding the page to the category), prefix the link name with a colon.  For example: <nowiki>[[</nowiki>:Category:Not in this category]]

New categories can be [[Help:Starting a new page|created]] before assigning any page to it, in the same way as any other regular page.

*For a complete list of all categories which have at least one page, see [[Special:Categories]].
*For a complete list of all created/edited categories, including the ones that don't have any pages, see [[Special:Allpages/Category:]] (note the colon at the end).

= How can I contribute to the Maintenance =
 
Since so many contributors can participate to the wiki, it is necessary to regularly review the structure of the content that has been posted. This can include:
* Pruning categories: [[Special:Categories]] by removing the corresponding little-used Categories.
* Linking to Orphan pages at [[Special:LonelyPages]] so to move them out of this list.
* Creating links out of the [[:Special:DeadendPages]]
*Categorize [[Special:UncategorizedPages]]

[[Category:Help]]