1.  CMUT (Sources)

Extract
-------

However, as progress in micro fabrication continues capacitive
ultrasonic transducers are beginning to compete with piezoelectrics.
These capacitive micro-machined ultrasonic transducers (cMUTs) hold the
promise of dramatically reducing the cost associated with ultrasonic
transducers along with providing revolutionary advances in current
technology.

Wikipedia
=========

Capacitive micromachined ultrasonic transducers (CMUT) is a relatively
new concept in the field of ultrasonic transducers. Most of the
commercial ultrasonic transducers today are based on piezoelectricity.
CMUTs are the transducers where the energy transduction is due to change
in capacitance. CMUTs are constructed on silicon using micromachining
technique. A cavity is formed in a silicon substrate, and a thin layer
suspended on the top of the cavity serves as a membrane on which a
metallized layer acts an electrode, together with the silicon substrate
which serves as a bottom electrode.

If an AC signal is applied across the biased electrodes, the vibrating
membrane will produce ultrasonic waves in the medium of interest. In
this way it works as a transmitter. On the other hand, if ultrasonic
waves are applied on the membrance of biased CMUT, it will generate
alternating signal as the capacitance of the CMUT is varied. In this
way, it works as a receiver of ultrasonic waves.\[1\]

As CMUTs are micromachined devices, it is easier to construct 2D and 3D
arrays of transducers using this technology. This means large numbers of
CMUTs could be included in a transducer array providing larger bandwidth
compared to other transducer technologies. To achieve a high frequency
operation using CMUTs is easier due to its smaller dimensions.\[2\] The
frequency of operation depends on the cell size (cavity of membrane),
and on the stiffness of the material used as a membrane. As it is built
on silicon, the integration of electronics would be easier for the CMUTs
compared to other transducer technologies. The properties to use in high
frequency with large bandwidth makes it a good choice to use as a
transducer in medical imaging, especially in the an intravascular
ultrasound (IVUS). Because of its broader bandwidth, it could be used in
second-harmonic imaging. Also some experiments have been performed to
use CMUTs as hydrophones.

General Description and Advantages of cMUTs
===========================================

Piezoelectric transducers have long dominated ultrasonic transducer
technology, but capacitive micromachined ultrasound transducers (CMUTs)
have recently emerged as an alternative offering advantages such as wide
bandwidth, ease of fabricating large arrays, and potential for
integration with supporting electronic circuits. CMUT technology can
potentially produce the type of integrated catheter arrays and external
probes enabling advanced 3-D imaging. A CMUT is simply a device with two
plate-like electrodes biased with a DC voltage and driven with an
additional AC signal to harmonically move one of the plates. The main
components are the cavity, the membrane, and the electrode. Using common
integrated circuit (IC) fabrication processes, a capacitor cell appears
as a metallized membrane (top electrode) suspended above a heavily doped
silicon substrate (bottom electrode), as shown in Fig. 1. An insulating
layer is included to prevent the two electrodes from shorting in case of
contact. A single transducer element uses many small capacitor cells
connected in parallel. By organizing transducer elements in different
geometries, any array shape is possible (Fig. 2).

<http://www-kyg.stanford.edu/khuriyakub/export/system/modules/com.szinf.khuriyakub/resources/images/Research/CMUT/general/01.jpg>

FIGURE 1. Basic CMUT structure.

CMUTs provide several advantages over piezoelectric transducers: they
can be batch-produced with micromachining processes to tight parameter
specifications, which is difficult for piezoelectrics; they are easier
to fabricate than piezoelectric transducers; batch processing also
enables the fabrication of transducer arrays with different geometries
and operating frequencies on a single wafer. Fig. 3 shows transducer
arrays including 1-D linear, 2-D rectangular and ring-annular arrays all
fabricated on a single 4” silicon wafer; the use of standard IC
processes also makes integration of CMUT arrays with supporting
electronics convenient; and CMUTs can operate over a wider temperature
range than piezoelectric devices. Results over the last decade
demonstrate that traditionally fabricated CMUTs optimized with respect
to such design parameters as device size, membrane radius, thickness,
shape, gap height, and operating mode compare favorably to piezoelectric
transducers in terms of bandwidth (170%), frequency range (100 kHz-70
MHz), dynamic range (130 dB/V), maximum output pressure (35 kPa/V) and
receive sensitivity (50 dB/Pa/Hz).

<http://www-kyg.stanford.edu/khuriyakub/export/system/modules/com.szinf.khuriyakub/resources/images/Research/CMUT/general/02.jpg>

FIGURE 2. CMUT arrays.

-   \(a) A 64-element 30-MHz 1D array with 36-μm element pitch.
-   \(b) A 128x128-element 3-MHz 2D CMUT array with 420-μm element pitch.
-   \(c) A 64-element 10-MHz annular ring CMUT array with 100-μm
    element size.

<http://www-kyg.stanford.edu/khuriyakub/export/system/modules/com.szinf.khuriyakub/resources/images/Research/CMUT/general/03.jpg>

FIGURE 3. 1D and 2D arrays, ring-annular arrays, and single element
transducers with different specifications, designed for different
applications fabricated on a single silicon wafer and diced for
individual use.

Lien :
<http://www.academia.edu/4593625/Ultrasonic_Imaging_Transceiver_Design_for_CMUT_A_Three-Level_30-Vpp_Pulse-Shaping_Pulser_With_Improved_Ef_ciency_and_a_Noise-Optimized_Receiver>
