1.  Open-source Hardware

Open-source hardware (OSH) consists of physical artifacts of technology
designed and offered by the open design movement. Both free and
open-source software (FOSS) as well as open-source hardware is created
by this open-source culture movement and applies a like concept to a
variety of components. It is sometimes, thus, referred to as FOSH (free
and open source hardware). The term usually means that information about
the hardware is easily discerned so that others can make it - coupling
it closely to the maker movement.

Hardware design (i.e. *mechanical drawings, schematics, bills of
material, PCB layout data, HDL source code and integrated circuit layout
data*), in addition to the software that drives the hardware, are all
released under free/libre terms. The original sharer gains feedback and
potentially improvements on the design from the FOSH community. There is
now significant evidence that such sharing creates enormous economic
value.

Since the rise of reconfigurable programmable logic devices, sharing of
logic designs has been a form of open-source hardware. Instead of the
schematics, *hardware description language (HDL) code is shared*. HDL
descriptions are commonly used to set up system-on-a-chip systems either
in field-programmable gate arrays (FPGA) or directly in
application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) designs. HDL modules,
when distributed, are called semiconductor intellectual property cores,
or IP cores.
