1.  Projet: VLSI-CAD Lab

Low Cost, Low Power PC Based Embedded Ultrasound Imaging System
===============================================================

intro
-----

Presently the research group is focused upon design and development of a
low power, low cost, high performance embedded ultrasound imaging
system. The system has three parts; an analog front-end, a digital
signal processing hardware and a software application program. The
signal processing part is implemented using Xilinx FPGAs, due to the
need for both real time operation and further reconfigurability, if
required. Extensive parallelism and pipelining have been exploited while
mapping the algorithms into VLSI. The system board is fully integrable
with a standard PC. The user can see both real time video and individual
frames. Also, the hardware has a unit which performs compression of
image frames and storing them in the hard disk. The control and data
handling are taken care of by the software.

Ultrasound system block diagram
-------------------------------

<http://www.ecdept.iitkgp.ernet.in/web/web_labs/cadvlsi/picture/usg.gif>

The proposed system has got a 64 element phased array transducer at the
very front end. After necessary analog preprocessing, the signals are
digitized and sent to the FPGAs. The system performs digital beamforming
by properly delaying and weighting signals coming from all 64 channels,
and then adding them to get a coherent output. The amplitude and phase
modulation parameters are then extracted to obtain the intensity value.
Since the beamformed data is in polar format, a scan conversion is
required before displaying the pixels on a TV raster display. Also,
ultrasound images are greatly corrupted with noise, hence some image
filtering operations are also done. The image frames are transformed and
coded before storing them in the hard disk of the PC.

Hardware & Software for Ultrasound System
-----------------------------------------

<http://www.ecdept.iitkgp.ernet.in/web/web_labs/cadvlsi/picture/usg.jpg>

A total of four FPGAs are used for the delay and apodization operation,
each being the target for signal processing of 16 channels. Another two
FPGAs are used, one for the addition of signals, scan conversion and
amplitude extraction and the other for noise cleaning and image
compression. The synchronization and control signals are generated by
the application program running in the PC.

The software section consists of an application program and a driver.
The application program is written in VC++ and it senses the 33MHz 32
bit PCI bus slot through proper driver. Local side of the card placed on
the PCI slot transfers data to the PCI controller. Data transfer signals
are generated by the application program and sent to the card via USB
port.

Algorithms for real time dynamic receive apodization, scan conversion
and image filtering have already been implemented in Xilinx FPGA. The
group is presently engaged in Development of algorithms for efficient
beam generation and implementation of the same in VLSI. Algorithm and
architecture development of real time delay generation for receive
beamforming. Implementation of medical image compression and coding
algorithms using hardware/software co-design.

<Category:Project>
