1.  RaspiLangevin

ATL Mark III
============

type of device: B-Mode producer/distributor: Advanced Technology Labs.
(with optional Doppler mode) development: before 1975 frequency: 3.5 and
5 MHz time of production: 1975

Mechanical B-scan with A- and M-Mode, sector-scanner. Pw-Doppler unit
optional, 3.5 and 5 MHz. Programs for measuring; video documentation.
Used mainly for abdominal, cardiological, and vascular applications.

![](ATL Mark III.png "ATL Mark III.png")

Combison 100
============

type of device: B-Mode producer/distributor: Kretztechnik AG, Zipf
development: 1976 – 1978 frequency: 2.5 – 4 MHz time of production: 1978
– 1983

![](Combison 100 _ head.png "fig:Combison 100 _ head.png")
![](Combison 100 _ magnetic.png "fig:Combison 100 _ magnetic.png")
![](Combison 100 _ scan.png "fig:Combison 100 _ scan.png")
![](Combison 100.png "fig:Combison 100.png")

Real-time sector scanner. 5, later 3 rotating elements. Omnidirectional
measuring possible. Additional monitor. Transrectal and intravesical
transducers. Used in Obstetrics/Gynecology, Internal Medicine and
Urology. Origin: Frentzel-Beyme, Berlin

Mechanical Sector Scanner Mechanical sector scanner for Combison 100
with 5 identical rotating transducers (fix-focus). The transducer
pointing to the connecting window was activated by a magnetic strip
fixed at the cover. The accompanying switches, which were also activated
by magnets, can be seen between the transducers.

Combison 1320-5 type of device: B-Mode producer/distributor:
Kretztechnik AG, Zipf development: 1983/1984 frequency: 3.5 and 7 MHz
time of production: 1984-1993

Mechanical sector scanner and electronic multi-array scanner.
Intracavitary probes. Digital scan-converter for gray-scale storage.
Software: coordinated operation, picture processing, gauging. Integrated
instant-camera documentation. Spectral-Doppler as an option. Used for
abdomen, obstetrics, transrectal, vaginal and intravesical.

Sonoline 3000
=============

Desc
----

type of device: B-Mode producer/distributor: Siemens AG, Erlangen
development: frequency: 3 and 5 MHz time of production: 1985

Real-time sector-scanner with switch from 3 to 5 MHz. Storage function.

Sector Scanner
--------------

Prototype of a mechanical sector scanner with two identical transducers
mounted on a rotating support.

B-Mode System SB 30
===================

-   type of device: B-Mode producer/distributor: VEB Ultraschalltechnik
    Halle
-   development: ?
-   frequency: 2 and 5 MHz time of production: 1979

Ultrasound system with 2 rotating scanners, 2 und 5 MHz. 16 levels gray
scale, variable TGC, gauging marks. This system was meant to cover the
demands for B-mode devices in the German Democratic Republic (GDR), as
devices from Western manufacturers could not be imported. However,
because of inadequate technology (lack of electronic components), this
system was not able to meet international quality standards.

Origin: Institute for Biophysics, Halle

Sonoline SX
===========

type of device: B-, M-Mode producer/distributor: Siemens AG, Erlangen
Doppler development: 1982/1983 frequency: 3.5 and 5 MHz time of
production: beginning 1983

B-Mode device, mechanical sector-scanner with 3.5 and 5 MHz. Also M-Mode
and Doppler- Mode. Zoom. Measurements of distance and volume,
calculation of delivery date.

This scanner was developed parallel to the linear-scanner Sonoline LX
with identical components as part of the „Sonoline“ series.

With a size of only 30 x 24 x 40 cm it was a small, portable
scanner-unit for universal use.

Sector Scanner
--------------

Sample mechanical sector scanner probes with varying ultrasound
frequencies, each with three identical transducers on a rotating
support. (With guidance for puncture tubes.)

Diasonics RA1
=============

type of device: B-Mode producer/distributor: Diasonics/Siemens AG /
Doppler development: 1978 -1980 frequency: 2 - 7.5 MHz time of
production: since 1980

Real-time B-Mode. Mechanical sector scanner. The probe for „small parts“
is coupled with a pw-Doppler-probe (see No.136 SK1). Documentation by
instant camera. In the 3.5 MHz probe three sector scanners are
synchronized for a wide field of view (136 SK2). A special scanner arm
enables automatic positioning. The RA1 was the first „high end“ system

"Small-Parts" Duplex Probe
--------------------------

Mechanical sector scanner (wobbler) with high resolution; separate
pw-Doppler. Both probes are joined in one oil-filled case. Position,
size and angle of the Doppler sample volume can be adjusted within the
field of view of the B-Mode probe. Crude spectral display. Frequencies:
7.5 MHz B-Mode 2.0 MHz Doppler Mode

RA1 Mehrfachsonde
=================

-   type of device: B-Mode producer/distributor: Diasonics/Siemens AG
-   development:
-   frequency: 3.5 MHz time of production: 1978-1980

Mechanical multi transducer system Three synchronously rotating
transducers for displaying larger body surfaces. Each transducer
displays a pre-defined part of the sectional plane. The transducers are
alternately activated. The whole picture is displayed by combining the
three separate scans (see No. 136). Relatively low frame rate.

Trans Rectal Scanner 9526
=========================

type of device: B-Mode producer/distributor: Brüel & Kjaer, DK
development: 1978 -1979 frequency: 3.5 MHz time of production: 1979

B-Mode, mechanically rotating scanner, exclusively for transrectal use.
Coupling by a water-filled standoff. Origin: B. Frentzel-Beyme, Berlin

Ultrasonic Endoscopic Probe UM 2
================================

type of device: 360° Sector Scanner producer/distributor: Aloka/Olympus
development: since 1981 frequency: 7.5 MHz time of production:

Mechanical 360° sector-scanner at the tip of a gastroscope with oblique
optics for viewing. Originally developed for the inspection of organs
next to the stomach, such as the pancreas; mostly used for the
evaluation of the walls of the esophagus and the stomach - complementary
to optical endoscopy. See also No. 138, Sonoline 8000.

Endoprobe
=========

type of device: B-Mode producer/distributor: Siemens AG, Erlangen
development: frequency: 5-7.5 MHz time of production: 1989-1990

Endoprobe (rectal probe) Mechanical sector transducer for
endosonography. Designated especially for transrectal scanning. The
mechanical drive makes it possible to choose the location of the
sectional plane.

Gallerie
========

<File:TR.png> <File:UM2> - scan.png <File:UM2.png> <File:ATL> Mark
III.png <File:Combison> 100 \_ head.png <File:Combison> 100 \_
magnetic.png <File:Combison> 100 \_ scan.png <File:Combison> 100.png
<File:Combison> 1320-5.png <File:endoprobe.png> <File:RA1> - probe.png
<File:RA1> - scan.png <File:RA1> Mehrfachsonde.png <File:sb30.png>
<File:sonoline> 3000 \_ probe.png <File:sonoline> 3000.png
<File:sonoline> sx \_ probe.png <File:Sonoline> SX.png <File:TR> -
scan.png

<Category:Balayage>
