1.  Twitter Search October 2014

`Will ultrasound-on-a-chip make medical imaging so cheap that anyone can do it?`

`   By Antonio Regalado on November 3, 2014`

Why It Matters

Article
=======

Portable, cheap, and high-quality ultrasound could make medicine’s most
commonly used imaging technique accessible to more people. illustrated
portrait of Jonathan Rothberg

Jonathan Rothberg

A scanner the size of an iPhone that you could hold up to a person’s
chest and see a vivid, moving, 3-D image of what’s inside is being
developed by entrepreneur Jonathan Rothberg.

<http://www.technologyreview.com/sites/default/files/images/rothberg_patent.png>

Rothberg says he has raised \$100 million to create a medical imaging
device that’s nearly “as cheap as a stethoscope” and will “make doctors
100 times as effective.” The technology, which according to patent
documents relies on a new kind of ultrasound chip, could eventually lead
to new ways to destroy cancer cells with heat, or deliver information to
brain cells.

Rothberg has a knack for marrying semiconductor technology to problems
in biology. He started and sold two DNA-sequencing companies, 454 and
Ion Torrent Systems (see “The \$2 Million Genome” and “A Semiconductor
DNA Sequencer”), for more than \$500 million. The profits have allowed
Rothberg, who showed up for an interview wearing worn chinos and a
tattered sailor’s belt, to ply the ocean on a 130-foot yacht named Gene
Machine and to indulge high-concept hobbies like sequencing the DNA of
mathematical geniuses.

The imaging system is being developed by Butterfly Network, a three-year
old company that is the furthest advanced of several ventures that
Rothberg says will be coming out of 4Combinator, an incubator he has
created to start and finance companies that combine medical sensors with
a branch of artificial-intelligence science called deep learning.

Rothberg won’t say exactly how Butterfly’s device will work, or what it
will look like. “The details will come out when we are on stage selling
it. That’s in the next 18 months,” he says. But Rothberg guarantees it
will be small, cost a few hundred dollars, connect to a phone, and be
able to do things like diagnose breast cancer or visualize a fetus.

Butterfly’s patent applications describe its aim as building compact,
versatile new ultrasound scanners that can create 3-D images in real
time. Hold it up to a person’s chest, and you would look through “what
appears to be a window” into the body, according to the documents.

Concept drawings filed with the patent office by Butterfly Network show
ideas for a small, 3-D ultrasound imaging device.

With the \$100 million supplied by Rothberg and investors, which include
Stanford University and Germany’s Aeris Capital, Butterfly appears to be
placing the largest bet yet by any company on an emerging technology in
which ultrasound emitters are etched directly onto a semiconductor
wafer, alongside circuits and processors. The devices are known as
“capacitive micro-machined ultrasound transducers,” or CMUTs.

Most ultrasound machines use small piezoelectric crystals or ceramics to
generate and recieve sound waves. But these have to be carefully wired
together, then attached via cables to a separate box to process the
signals. Anyone who can integrate ultrasound elements directly onto a
computer chip could manufacture them cheaply in large batches, and more
easily create the type of arrays needed to produce 3-D images.

`   “The vision for this product has been around for many years. It remains to be seen whether someone can make it into a market-validated reality.”`

Ultrasound is used more often by doctors than any other type of imaging
test, including to view a baby during pregnancy, to find tumors in soft
tissues like the liver, and more recently to treat prostate cancer by
heating up cells with sound waves.

The idea for micromachined ultrasound chips dates to 1994, when Butrus
Khuri-Yakub, a Stanford professor who advises Rothberg’s company, built
the first one. But none have been a commercial success, despite a decade
of interest by companies including General Electric and Philips. This is
because they haven’t functioned reliably and have proved difficult to
manufacture.

“The vision for this product has been around for many years. It remains
to be seen whether someone can make it into a market-validated reality,”
says Richard Przybyla, head of circuit design at Chirp Microsystems, a
startup in Berkeley, California, that’s developing ultrasound systems
that let computers recognize human gestures. “Perhaps what was needed
all along is a large investment and a dedicated team.”

Rothberg says he got interested in ultrasound technology because his
oldest daughter, now a college student, has tuberous sclerosis. It is a
disease that causes seizures and dangerous cysts to grow in the kidneys.
In 2011 he underwrote an effort in Cincinnati to test whether
high-intensity ultrasound pulses could destroy the kidney tumors by
heating them.

What he saw led Rothberg to conclude there was room for improvement. The
setup—an MRI machine to see the tumors, and an ultrasound probe to heat
them—cost millions of dollars, but wasn’t particularly fast, more like a
“laser printer that takes eight days to print and looks like my kids
drew it in crayon,” he says. “I set out to make a super-low-cost version
of this \$6 million machine, to make it 1,000 times cheaper, 1,000 times
faster, and a hundred times more precise.”

Rothberg claims there’s a “secret sauce” to Butterfly’s technology, but
he won’t reveal it. But it may have as much to do with clever device and
circuit design as overcoming the physical limits and manufacturing
problems that CMUT technology has faced so far.

One reason to think so is that the company’s cofounder, Nevada Sánchez,
previously helped cosmologists design a much cheaper radio telescope
with a signal-processing trick called a butterfly network, also the
origin of the startup’s name. Also working with the company is Greg
Charvat, who joined it from MIT’s Lincoln Laboratory, where he developed
radar that can see human bodies even through thick stone walls (see
“Seeing like Superman”).

During a visit to 4Combinator’s headquarters, which sits inside a marina
in Guilford, Connecticut, Charvat and Sanchez showed off a picture of a
penny so detailed you could read the letters and numbers on it. They’d
taken the image this spring using a prototype chip. “The ultrasound
\[industry\] is basically back in the 1970s. GE and Siemens are building
on old concepts,” says Charvat. With chip manufacturing and a few new
ideas from radar, he says, “we can image faster, with a wider field of
view, and go from millimeter to micrometer resolution.”

Ultrasound works by shooting out sound and then capturing the echo. It
can also create beams of focused energy—and chip-based devices could
eventually lead to new systems for killing tumor cells. Small devices
might also be used as a way to feed information to the brain (it was
recently discovered that that neurons can be activated with ultrasonic
waves).

`   “I think it will become better than a human in saying ‘Does this kid have Down syndrome, or a cleft lip?’ And when people are pressed for time it will be superhuman.”`

Rothberg says his first goal will be to market an imaging system cheap
enough to be used even in the poorest corners of the world. He says the
system will depend heavily on software, including techniques developed
by artificial intelligence researchers, to comb through banks of images
and extract key features that will automate diagnoses.

“We want it to work like ‘panorama’ on an iPhone,” he says, referring to
a smartphone function that steers a picture taker to pan across a vista
and automatically assembles a composite image. But in addition to
recognizing objects—body parts in the case of a fetal exam—and helping
the user locate them, Rothberg says the system would also reach
preliminary diagnostic conclusions based on pattern-finding software.

“When I have thousands of these images, I think it will become better
than a human in saying ‘Does this kid have Down syndrome, or a cleft
lip?’ And when people are pressed for time it will be superhuman,” says
Rothberg. “I will make a technician able to do this work.”

Rothberg says his incubator has started three other companies in
addition to Butterfly, and he’s given each of them between \$5 million
and \$20 million in seed capital. They include a biotechnology firm, Lam
Therapeutics, working on treatments connected to tubular sclerosis;
Hyperfine Research, a startup in stealth mode that hasn’t said what type
of technology it is developing; and another company that’s unnamed.

Comments
========

-   I am no expert but I love the premise of making things available for
    more people. This is the type of tech we all need to focus on -
    democratizing med is essential for the world we are living in and
    especially for the one we are leaving for our kids.

<!-- -->

-   I remember seeing someone go for an MRI, and he couldn’t hold his
    breath, so they had to keep on canceling it.

After a while, the whole appointment had to be scrapped. If you look up,
“Collaborative 3D Scanning with Paracosm and Google Project Tango", you
can see a video of multiple people scanning different parts of same the
space, and then joining the data to create a 3-D model. For Tango, it
seems like you could start and resume from anywhere. I wonder if you
could apply this reconstruction and interpolation(?) to MRIs and
ultrasounds. Instead of relying on specialists to know how to get the
device at the right spot, you rent some time with a device, and you
and/or an average person just scans the general area. Optionally, a
company called Matterport takes the stored data from Tango, and does
some additional off-line processing The more you scan, and the more
waiting and processing that you do, the better the image.

-   the aritcle left out the origianal innovator in this space-
    Sonosite, Inc

(GE and others have been chasing them for awhile now) I founded and ran
SONO for 17 years--lawyers wont be the issue we thought the same thing
when we entered but they are missing a few blind spots kgoodwin

-   Until its doing something radically different, GE seems to be
    already there:
    -   <http://www3.gehealthcare.in/en/products/categories/ultrasound/vscan_family/vscan>
    -   Here is the patent application referenced in the article:
        <https://docs.google.com/viewer?url=patentimages.storage.googleapis.com/pdfs/US20140300720.pdf>
    -   Nothing there or in the article, about how the ultrasound signal
        gets into the body and back to the transducer - current
        ultrasound requires the transducer to be in contact with the
        body and for there to be a coupling agent or gel between the
        transducer and the body. Also nothing about how to get the
        resolution for deep images anywhere near what they
        are promising.
    -   seems more like science fiction at this point...

<!-- -->

-   @toman.bruce Goto the USPTO database and look at the pending patent
    applications, which have all the serious discussions of CMUT,
    semiconductor manufacturing, and transmissive ultrasound. An air gap
    would be a problem but maybe its just creative license taken by the
    artist who made the drawing.

<!-- -->

-   -   @regalado That is a pretty handwavy answer. I did look. I didn't
        see anything that deals with the basic physics of imaging - the
        higher the frequency, the higher the resolution, but the less
        deeply you can image (which has nothing to do with device
        emitting the sound or rf energy, but has do with the signal
        itself, interacting with its target) . Those baby ultrasounds
        are hard to read for a reason! And ditto, the air gap is just
        about the physics of the US signal (not the transducer).
    -   You didn't have any real discussion of those things in the
        article, but they are the ones that jump out at me. But your
        very "woo" first sentence - with that "see a vivid, moving, 3-D
        image of what’s inside" bit. - sure led me to think they are
        promising high res deep tissue US imaging. :)
    -   i would like to assume there is more going on than is public -
        you don't raise serious money from third parties without them
        doing diligence on your technology pitch. But still...

<!-- -->

-   @toman.bruce guilty as charged. the CMUT people think they can get
    the frequencies for deep tissue imaging, even on a small device
    (which i guess takes a lot of volts). Your questions are above my
    EE level. You might be interested in this talk by Khuri-Yakub.
    <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aUbjrxME5DI>

<!-- -->

-   @toman.bruce I reviewed the patents. To be fair, I was pretty clear
    to @aregalado that the iPad-like ultrasound device would not work
    through the air since you need a gel to conduct the sound (passing
    through the air gives you more than 30dB power loss making it
    effectively impossible to penetrate the skin).
    -   However, when examining patents one has to remember that the
        inventor only has to cover things that someone skilled in the
        art wouldn't think were obvious. So speculation based on the
        patents themselves, without seeing the product, is pretty thin
        evidence in any case.
    -   A scanner like this that rubs against the body with a gel would
        be a great achievement in and of itself. It need not go through
        the air to be an good product. I think the key here will be
        execution and cost to market.

<!-- -->

-   The problems with the promises about high resolution, live images of
    tissues deep in the body remain for me. That has nothing to do with
    the hardware, but rather with the interaction between the signal and
    the tissue. but like i said, they may have some magic for this. The
    discussion about databases of images in the article hints at
    something they might have in mind.... For me, there is not enough
    information available to take that claim very seriously, at
    this point.

<!-- -->

-   @iWitness which is why regardless of whatever technology development
    they master, it will be a 10 year journey to get this through the
    FDA and into consumer's hands.

<!-- -->

-   Very nice. US is hard to read and I would wager most PMDs could not
    do it reliably (if at all). Automating imaging diagnostics is
    definitely the wave of the future, possibly putting radiologists on
    the list of threatened medical specie... I mean specialties.
